
#### Two-Headed Calf by Laura Gilpin
```
Tomorrow when the farm boys find this
freak of nature, they will wrap his body
in newspaper and carry him to the museum.

But tonight he is alive and in the northfield with his mother. 
It is a perfect summer evening: the moon rising overthe orchard, the wind in the grass. 
And as he stares into the sky, there aretwice as many stars as usual.
```

> It is a strange thing that all the memories have these two qualities. They are always full of quietness, that is the most striking thing about them; and even when things weren't like that in reality, they still seem to have that quality. They are soundless apparitions, which speak to me by looks and gestures, wordless and silent — and their silence is precisely what disturbs me.
— Erich Maria Remarque, All Quiet on the Western Front 



> Truth, like love and sleep, resents
Approaches that are too intense. 
— W.H. Auden




In this article about designing computer-mediated communication platforms the authors discuss:
What leads to an effective conversation? Can we predict what circumstances effect behaviour, and subsequently, the outcome of a human conversation? 

The paper lists the indicators for effective communication (for a crisis text hotline) as:

- successful persuasion
- problem solving
- improvements in emotional state 


The earliest conversations we have are perhaps about none of these things. Van Der Kolk writes that there are patterns of attachment that form between a mother and a child. They can be described as  "avoidant attachment" , where the infants look like nothing really bothers them but they're in a constant state of hyperarousal. Dealing but not feeling. You kind of just numb yourself out and accept whatever is happening. In another pattern, called "anxious or ambivalent attachment" the infant constantly draws attention to themselves by crying, yelling, and clinging or screaming. They are "feeling but not dealing". They become enormously upset when they do not know where their mother is but derive little comfort from her return. And even though they don't seem to enjoy her company, they stay passively or angrily focused on her, even in situations when other children would rather play. 

There is also identified a group of children who cannot seem to figure out how to engage with their caregivers. The critical issue turned out that the caregivers themselves are the source of distress to the children. They "can neither approach, shift their attention, nor flee". Not knowing who is safe or whom they belong to, they may be intensely affectionate with strangers or may trust nobody. This pattern is called "disorganized attachment." (pg 119)


I think back to the lamb and wonder how might one 'diagnose' it.
Here are my questions: 
What is normal for the lamb? What is the state of being 'normal' before trauma catches up to you and you perform it for other people?
How much can you blame on genetic disposition and how much on the trauma, abandonment, abuse, deprivation that the lamb is likely to run into? 
Would the lamb's mind rewrite this memory?
Would it think back to it's mother or adjust to the farm boys needs?
How do people learn what is safe and what is not safe? 
What is inside and what is outside, what should be resisted and what can safely be accepted? 
Does the lamb know to celebrate the stars? When?


***

## Mentioned:
###### tanvi

- [The Body Keeps the Score by Bessel Van Der Kolk.](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/18693771-the-body-keeps-the-score "book")
- [Two-Headed Calf by Laura Gilpin](https://rolfpotts.com/two-headed-calf-by-laura-gilpin/ "poem")
- [The Emotionally Abusive Relationship by Beverly Engel](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/129711.The_Emotionally_Abusive_Relationship "book")
- [Quantifying the Causal Effects of Conversational Tendencies](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.03897.pdf](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2009.03897.pdf "paper")
- [Monsters by Lucy Daydream](https://open.spotify.com/track/2C1rdBtsC37wtkAofoC6i1?si=935ee08dc5da4ea2)


###### sophie
- [Laura Dean Keeps Breaking Up with Me](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/40864841-laura-dean-keeps-breaking-up-with-me?ac=1&from_search=true&qid=O1mHCtf9VY&rank=1)

###### vian
- All about love by bell hooks
- Art of Fielding 
